//Elizabeth Parent

Artist’s Statement

The goal of my project is to create a 3D version of the Adirondack mountains in New York, specifically the High Peaks region. I will achieve this using a heightmap jpg from sarTOPO.com which will be a bird’s eye view with higher elevations being whiter and lower being blacker. I will then place a mesh over it, use P3D, and raise the z-values depending on the shade of the image. This map, complete with trails, their difficulty, and weather conditions, will serve as a tool for hikers when planning their trip. I will pull the weather conditions from the internet and display them, with corresponding graphics, in the upper right corner.
My model will be like a floating island that the user can zoom in on and rotate around the center. I will have two colour schemes; one for summer and one for winter. The winter version will have snow falling and skiers on certain slopes while the summer version will show more nature and brighter greens. I will also include locations of lean-to’s and cabins so that the user can know where it is possible to camp. I intend to make the range very aesthetically pleasing and fun to use. 
There are 46 peaks in the range that are above 4000ft in elevation. It is a common goal for hikers to summit all 46, so I will implement a system where they can check off those peaks they have reached. They can then figure out the best trails to complete the ones which they are missing. 
My program would help users to visualize their hike beforehand. Often, it is difficult to do this using a regular flat map and there can be surprise steep sections. My map will allow people to get a realistic picture of what they are about to attempt.
